## MECA 482 Final Project Fall 2019



By: Francisco Biordi, Cameron Schindler, Jacob Olsen 








### Project Description 

VTOL stands for vertical take-off and landing, meaning that an aircraft with this classification can hover mid-air as well as take-off and land vertically. A control system is required to successfully operate an aircraft with VTOL capabilities due to the unusual designs of most. The VTOL aircraft control system involves the control and positioning of a shaft mounted to support in a way that allows for rotation in the plane normal to the support and coincident with the shaft. A propeller is mounted to one end of the shaft and a counterweight is mounted on the other end to shift the center of gravity further towards the pivot point. The control of the propeller is what makes this a VTOL aircraft because the thrust generated by it must be controlled to move the shaft to the desired orientation. The idea of VTOL aircraft has been around since the early 1900s but the first good examples were not created until after World War II. The most common type of VTOL aircraft is the helicopter since it is used both in military and civilian applications. There are a handful of jets that are capable of VTOL operation such as the Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey and the variants of the Harrier jet. 




### 

### Support or Contact

Having trouble with Pages? Check out our [documentation](https://help.github.com/categories/github-pages-basics/) or [contact support](https://github.com/contact) and we’ll help you sort it out.
